# Hyprland & Critical Softwares
With the prerequisite base system established, we proceed to the core of this guide. This section delineates the process of installing Hyprland and configuring critical system software to ensure a robust and efficient workflow.

### Hyprland Installation
1. **Install Hyprland:** 

    ```
    pacman -S hyprland
    ```

    **Pro Tip:** If you're feeling adventurous, you can always grab the bleeding-edge version from the AUR for the latest features and fixes.

2. **Initiate Hyprland:**
    As we installed SDDM before, you can also start the session through it.

    ```
    Hyprland
    ```

3. **Upon initial launch:** A top bar will display with a warning and commands to launch Kitty and exit Hyprland.
To remove the warning:

    * Launch Kitty using the shortcut **`(SUPER + Q)`** 
    * Navigate to `~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf` and either comment out or remove the line `autogenerated = 1`.

    Essential default keybindings:
    * **`SUPER + C`:** Kill the active window
    * **`SUPER + M`:** Quit hyprland (but why would you want to?)

To access web resources, open Kitty and execute `brave-browser` to launch the Brave browser.

### Critical System Components
1. **XDG Desktop Portal:** The XDG Desktop Portal is crucial for handling desktop functionalities such as file dialogs and screensharing.

    ```
    pacman -S xdg-desktop-portal-hyprland
    ```

2. **Install Polkit:** Polkit manages system-wide privileges. Install the KDE version for compatibility:

    ```
    pacman -S polkit-kde-agent
    ```
    
    * To autostart Polkit, append the following to your `hyprland.conf`:

        ```
        exec-once=/usr/lib/polkit-kde-authentication-agent-1
        ```

    * Note: Ensure there's no whitespace between `=` and `/`.

3. **QT Wayland Support:** Install the necessary libraries for QT applications to function correctly under Wayland:

    ```
    pacman -S qt5-wayland qt6-wayland
    ```

4. **Notification Daemon:** A notification daemon is essential for managing system notifications. Many apps may freeze without one running. [Dunst](https://github.com/dunst-project/dunst) is a lightweight, customizable option:

    ```
    pacman -S dunst
    ```

    * To autostart dunst, append the following to your `hyprland.conf`:

        ```
        exec-once=/usr/bin/dunst
        ```

### Hyprland Session Reload  
After installing the critical software components and making the necessary configurations, restart your Hyprland session to ensure all new settings and software are properly initialized and integrated.

Next: [Basic Configuration](basic_configuration.md)